paralogger.txt
Created Thu May 28 08:30:56 AKDT 2009
by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Paralogger
==========
Paralogger is a script to "tail" the system logs in borderless transparent 
Eterm(s).  Its purpose is to make setting up a "root tail" an easy set and 
forget.  Paralogger makes the placement of the terminals (geometry) more 
friendly for the user by detecting the screen resolution and calculating the 
geometry of the terminals automatically. It can also load or save a 
configuration file.

freshmeat.net/

This project is unfortunately abandoned by the author (gtk) and is therefore 
unmaintained.  Feel free to take over maintainership.  After all its released 
under the GPL. Thank you for your interest in paralogger.

Paralogger is a Bourne shell script to "tail" your system logs in pseudo 
transparent borderless Eterm(s).

Paralogger's purpose is to make setting up a "root tail" an easy set and 
forget.

Paralogger is not for any specific window manager.  It works with both 
Enlightenment and Window Maker as well as all others that plays nicely with 
Eterm.


Why it might be useful
======================
Because it is nice to know what is going on with your box. It also adds to
the eyecandy of your desktop :-)


Debian packages
===============
There used to be some unofficial ones, any takers?

(License is GPL)
What makes it different from similar scripts?

illustration Well, you could off course just tail -f /var/log/* in any 
terminal.  If you are happy with this, then paralogger is not for you.

Paralogger tries to make the placement of the terminals (geometry) a little 
more friendly for the user.  Normally you would be playing with Eterm options
and the --geometry switch only to find out that if you switch your screen 
resolution later you would have had to readjust the geometry of the terminal.

What happens when you start paralogger, is that it detects your screen 
resolution.  It then uses this information to calculate the base placement of 
the terminal based on where you want it to be on the screen.  Like the 
illustration shows here, there are 6 predefined base placement modes.

These 6 predefined placement modes can now be specified from the command line 
like:

$ paralogger -tl /var/log/messages /var/log/secure


Example
=======
Let's say I configure paralogger to open the base window at mc (short for 
middle center).  And my current screen resolution is 800x600. When I start 
paralogger the base window is in the center of the screen. I then quit X, 
restart X in 1600x1200 and start paralogger. The base window is still in the 
center.

It doesn't matter what screen resolution you are running because paralogger
will calculate the placement of the terminal for you.


Modes of operation
==================
You may have been wondering what I mean when I am talking about the base 
window. This has to do with the different modes paralogger can operate in. In 
single mode, only one window (the base window) get's opened and is tailing all
the logs you have specified. In vertical cascade mode or horizontal cascade 
mode, one window is opened for each log relative to the base window, either 
below or to the left of this window.


Examples
========
Keep in mind that these are just examples.

With colortail:

  paralogger -save -color -F nexus -H 5 -tint 0xff8080 /var/log/messages \ 
  /var/log/secure

Note the -save option, this means you can get away with running only: 
"paralogger -load" the next time because paralogger will load the options you 
specified from the configuration file.

With wildcards:
  paralogger -vv /var/log/*

Note that some files are still empty when tailing them here. The files are not
colored either, because the default is to use regular tail. There are a lot 
more files in /var/log/*, but those that are known to be binary or not written
to any longer are excluded from the list automatically based on certain 
criterias. This default behavior can be turned off with -nostop.

Horizontal cascade mode:
  paralogger -f lightblue -hcas -F 5x7 -shade 50 -W 60 -H 6 /var/log/samba/*

Here we specify to use horizontal cascade mode -hcas with a smaller font and 
width of the terminal than default. Observe that you will need a high monitor
resolution if you intend to use -hcas with many files.

from: gtk.no/


Filelist
========
paralogger-1.0.3.tar.gz (Tarball)
paralogger-1.0.2-1rh73.noarch.rpm (RPM)

bornite's /data/00TARBALLS/gnome/


Links
=====
Paralogger
http://freshmeat.net/projects/paralogger/
http://gtk.no/paralogger
